RP2350 Specific Notes
=====================

The RP2350 chip (present on the Raspberry Pi Pico 2 board and many others)
is supported by the core with some minor caveats:

* PSRAM is supported via a new ``pmalloc`` call and ``PSRAM`` variable decorator.
* Both RP2350A and RP2350B (48 GPIOs) are supported.

ARM and RISC-V Modes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Either set of cores can be used on the RP2350, ARM Cortex-M33 or RISC-V Hazard3.
Select the desired core from the IDE menus under ``Tools->CPU Architecture``.
As of the initial release, all libraries should work under the new RISC-V mode with
the exception of FreeRTOS.  If not, patches are always welcome.

P2350-E9 Errata ("Increased leakage current on Bank 0 GPIO when pad input is enabled")
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Like all chips, the RP2350-A2 stepping has post-silicon chip errata covering certain
bugs found after the chip was manufactured.  Probably the most (in)famous and concerning
is RP2350-E9 which is noted as resulting in "Increased leakage current on Bank 0 GPIO
when pad input is enabled."  At a high level, this means that in some cases when an
input pin is being driven by a weak (high impedance) input, it may not read properly.

After discussion with the community and exploration of the issue by many users, this
core has decided not to implement any forced workarounds for this issue.  Given the
physical nature of the problem and how no one specific solution is appropriate for
all conditions.

For more information please read the errata yourself and check the Raspberry Pi Forums
for the latest updates.

